PETE LEPAGE: There's a
new way to reduce latency
on canvas elements.
Web apps can now share files
to other installed apps using
the system-level
share sheet, and all
of our talks from Google I/O
are on our YouTube channel.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 75.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Drawing on-screen with
the canvas element
requires that the page
synchronizes graphics updates
with the DOM.
This synchronization can
sometimes cause latency.
For example, in a
drawing app, latencies
longer than 50
milliseconds can interfere
with hand/eye coordination,
making them difficult to use.
The desynchronized hint when
creating a canvas context
uses a different code path that
bypasses the usual DOM update
mechanism.
The hint tells
the system to skip
as much compositing as it can.
In some cases, the
canvas's underlying buffer
is sent directly to the
screen's display controller.
This eliminates the latency
that would be caused by using
the [? render-compositer ?] cue.
Using the desynchronized
hint is simple.
Just add desynchronized
true to the Options
object when creating the canvas.
Check out Joe's article,
"Low-Latency Rendering with
the Desynchronized
Hint" for more details,
including how to do
feature detection for it.
The Web Share API allows you to
plug in to the system's share
service provided
by the OS, making
it easy to share web pages and
apps with other installed apps
on the user's device.
In Chrome 75, the
Web Share API now
supports the sharing of files.
I'm particularly
excited about this
because it makes it way
easier for apps to share
photos, videos, and more.
In fact, [INAUDIBLE] is adding
support for this to share files
once you finish
compressing them.
It's best to use
feature detection
to see if the Web
Share API is supported,
and fall back to your
traditional mechanism
if it's not.
And you can use
Navigator.canShare
to check to see if file
sharing is supported.
For now, you can share
audio files, images, videos,
and text documents, but that
may change in the future.
If Navigator.canShare returns
true, sharing of those files
is supported, so you
can call Navigator.share
and pass an object
with the array of files
that you want to share.
Chrome will open the
system share sheet
and give you a list of installed
apps that you can share to.
Check out the
article "Share Files
with Web Share" for
complete details.
If you didn't make it
to I/O, or maybe you
did and didn't
see all the talks,
they're all up on
our YouTube channel,
or by going to the
link on-screen.
Tom and I presented "Unlocking
New Capabilities for the Web,"
covering some of the
amazing new capabilities
that are landing in
browsers this year.
[? Addy ?] and Katie covered
some cool performance tips
and tricks and speed at scale.
Elizabeth and Paul dove into
some cool DevTools things
and demystifying speed tooling,
and [? Mariko ?] showed us how
she and her crew built
[? Procs ?] to work on any
device, from feature phone
to smartphone to desktop.
If you haven't tried
[? Procs ?] yet,
it's a super fun
Minesweeper clone.
Subscribing is the best
way to stay up-to-date
with all the cool stuff
that we've got going on.
So click that button.
I'm Pete LePage, and as soon
as Chrome 76 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.